Okay now let's look at how these
features are used inside a classifier.
And in particular I want to introduce
the notion of linear classifiers.
Our feature based maxent classifiers and
linear classifiers.
And so what that means is that at
the end of the day what they're going to
do is going to have a set of features and
then, it's going to calculate a linear
function of those features, which will
end up as a score for a particular class.
And the way that we do that is that for
each feature,
fi, we assign it a weight, lambda i.
And so what we're going to
do is then consider for
an observed datum every particular
class that we can give it,
then we're going to work out what
features match against that datum and
therefore what the weight of the vote for
class in terms of these lambda i weights.
So let's look through a concrete example.
So this is, again, the example for where
we're going to be wanting to determine
the class for this word, where our choice
is here, a person, location, or drug.
And so what we're going to do
is consider which of the classes
gets the most votes, in terms of
the three features we defined before.
So the vote for
a class is just going to be the sums
of the weights that are assigned
to each of the features.
So remember the three
features from before.
The first feature looked whether
the preceding word was in,
where the word is capitalized, and
then whether the class is location.
So it's not going to match here,
but it's going to match over here.
And so that's a feature that
would tend to pick out locations.
So we'll assume that it has
a positive weight of 1.8.
The second feature was then also
a feature matched on locations and
it looked for
an accent in latin character here.
It will match against this datum but
not against the other two datums again.
And so in general I'm assuming that that
feature, at least for American English,
will have a negative weight because
you're more likely to see accents and
things like person names so
it might have a weight of -0.6.
Okay, then the third
feature that we had defined
was that the class was drug and
the word ends in c.
So of these three datums, the one
which we'll match is this one here.
And it's not true in this case, but
in general I think that's likely to be
true because quite a few drug names
like Zantac end in a c,
where not that many regular words do.
So maybe we'll give that a weak positive
vote and say the that feature has 0.3.
And so then, what we're going to be
doing is that we're going to be choosing
the class that has
the highest total votes.
And so,
there are three class choices here.
So, this class choice of person
actually matched no features.
So, its total vote is zero,
which is kind of neither a positive nor
a negative preference.
This class choice of location
in aggregate had a vote for
it of 1.2 and this class choice of drug
in aggregate had a vote for it 0.3.
And so
what we're going to choose is the class
which maximizes this voting
quantity is going to be location.
There are many ways to choose the weights
for the features in our classifier.
So for example, perceptron algorithms,
what they do is they look for
a currently misclassified example.
And then they nudge
the weights in a direction that
will correct the classification
of that one example.
Another popular form of discriminative
classifiers support vector machines,
which we're not going to
cover in these classes, but
what they're trying to do is create a lot
of distance between examples of different
classes by adjusting the featured
weights to achieve that direction.
So, they're called max-margin classifiers.
But, the classifiers that we're going to
look at here are maxent classifiers,
which are in a family which is referred to
as exponential or log-linear classifiers.
In general, this family has lots and
lots of names.
So there are things in this class also
referred to as logistic classifiers and
Gibbs models which are very
closely related to maxent models.
And so the idea from this class is that
what we're going to do is we're going
to make a probabilistic model out of the
linear combination that we already saw.
The sum over the dot product,
so it's a dot product,
the lambda f dot product, which is
the sum of lambda i f i of c and d.
So how do we do it?
Well what we're going to imagine doing
is kind of in the simplest possible way.
So here's the sum of lambda I, fi of,
which is a function of c and d.
Now the problem with this linear
combination is that it might
come out as either positive or negative,
and that's bad if you're a probability.
And so, what we're going to want to do is
we're going to make that always positive.
And the way we're going to do that
is taking an exponential of it, so
we're going to take E to this power.
So this is something that will
always make the vote positive.
And this form I'm showing here,
so it's It's E,
that's the 2.818 etcetera.
And then your raising
the feature dot product to that.
So you can also see it's
written in as e to the lambda
dot f where these are our features.
Okay, so now we've got something
that's a positive quantity but
it's not necessarily a probability.
So we're going to make it a probability
in the simplest way possible to,
which is we're going to normalise it.
So this is some kind of score for
one class and so
then what we can do is
work out the score for
every class and divide through by it.
Okay and then we're going to say that
this quantity here is the probability
that we assign to a class,
probability of a particular class for
a datum given a certain set of parameters,
where this is our vector
of all the parameters.
And so we can work out a concrete example
so that for our previous example where we
had the probability of
choosing location given
in Quebec.
Well what we're going to work out is for
a numerator we've got
the features that match.
So we're working out
e to the 1.8 plus minus 0.6.
And then we're going to divide that
through by the total votes for
all of the classes.
So, one class had no features matching.
The second class had
the single vote of 0.3 and
then here's the one for location
which is e to the 1.8 plus -0.6.
And you can work that out
on your calculator and
it comes out to be equal to about 0.59.
And so these kind of terms there
you can also simplify them.
So adding exponents is just
the same as multiplying.
So even also think of this as e to
the 1.8 times e to the minus 0.6.
And so
that's the sense in which each of these
features gives some extra multiplicative
term that changes the probability.
That when you add a feature you're
adding an extra multiplicative term that
changes the probability.
So if you worked through all of
the examples of the different classes
are just skipping through the math,
that what you get is that these
are the different probabilities.
And so note that we're giving
a probability of each amount three
class choices and
together that they do add up to one.
And that's precisely by the normalization
that we've defined here.
So these weights lambda are now the
parameters of a probability distribution.
And we're combining them
by this function here.
This function is also referred
to as the soft max function.
And the reason for that is because, when
you're using this exponent function to
make things positive, things get bigger.
So, if you take something like e to
the three, that's approximately 25 or
something.
And so the effect of that is
the features with the strongest votes
dominate more strongly in this form here.
And so
it's sort of like a soft maximum, so
it'll give you a value that's most
strongly determined by the biggest votes.
In maxent or exponential models,
what we're wanting to do is say,
given this model form,
what we are going to do is try and
choose parameters, lambda i,
that maximize the conditional likelihood
of the data according to this model.
So we've defined probabilities over
data and classes, and we're going to
maximize those choice of classes according
to that probability distribution.
So a feature of these models is that
we construct not only a classification
function, but also probability
distribution over classifications.
So there are many good ways
of discriminating classes.
So SVMs, boosting, even perceptrons,
many machine learning algorithms will
give you a way to distinguish
between classes, but
these are the ones that are naturally and
inherently thought of as distributions
of the classes though people have thought
of ways to extend them in this direction.
You may have seen logistic regression or
multi-class logistic regression in
a statistics or machine learning model,
so that maybe divides people.
If you haven't seen these before, don't
worry about it, because the presentation
and derivations that we show here
are completely self-contained.
But on the other hand,
if you have seen these models before.
That something you might want
to do is just think about
how what was presented here
is a little bit different.
And it's effectively
different in two ways.
One is the choice of parameterization.
So the parameterization is slightly
different than the parameterization that's
normally shown from multiclass logistic
regression models in statistics.
And there are kind of pluses and
minuses to the presentation here.
The minus is it's slightly statistically
inelegant because the model is over
parameterized.
But the plus if that this style of
parameterization is actually very
advantageous to NLP models, which have
the property that they're always a very
large number of features most of which
are inactive for any particular datum.
But secondly, the thing to observe is
that the way things are formulated here
is in terms of feature functions.
Feature functions of both
the observed data and of the class.
This both shows how you can put
text into the model most simply.
But it's actually also
more general formulation
than you normally see from all
the class logistic regression models.
We actually won't use the more
general formulation in the material
that is presented here.
But it has actually been shown to be
useful once you go onto more complex
natural language processing
structured prediction tasks.
Here's a quiz question for
you guys to work through.
So we're still in the situation that
we're wanting to choose some class for
the final word, which is now Goeric.
And our choice of classes are the same
classes as before person, location, or
drug and we have exactly the same three
features that we've been using throughout
these examples.
And so what we'd like you to do
is just concretely work through
what the probabilities that are assigned
to each of the three classes this time.
Okay, now I hope you understand
the math of a maxent model and
the sense in which it's one of
the family of linear classifiers.